Update AsyncGuidance.md (#92)
davidfowl/AspNetCoreDiagnosticScenarios: AsyncGuidance.md

## AsyncLocal\<T\>

Async locals are a way to store/retrieve ambient state throughout an application. This can be a *very* useful alternative to flowing explicit state everywhere, especially through call sites that you do not have much control over. While it is powerful, it is also dangerous if used incorrectly. Async locals are attached to the [execution context](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/system.threading.executioncontext) which flows *everywhere implicitly*. Disabling execution context flow requires use of advanced APIs (typically prefixed with the Unsafe name). As such, there's very little control over what code will attempt to access these values. 

### Creating an AsyncLocal\<T\>

If you can avoid async locals, do so by explicitly passing state around or using techniques like inversion of control.

If you cannot avoid it, it's best to make sure that anything put into an async local:

1. Is not disposable

> 2. Immutable/read only/thread safe

Author: ```suggestion
2. Is Immutable/read only/thread safe
```

## AsyncLocal\<T\>

Async locals are a way to store/retrieve ambient state throughout an application. This can be a *very* useful alternative to flowing explicit state everywhere, especially through call sites that you do not have much control over. While it is powerful, it is also dangerous if used incorrectly. Async locals are attached to the [execution context](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/system.threading.executioncontext) which flows *everywhere implicitly*. Disabling execution context flow requires use of advanced APIs (typically prefixed with the Unsafe name). As such, there's very little control over what code will attempt to access these values. 

### Creating an AsyncLocal\<T\>

If you can avoid async locals, do so by explicitly passing state around or using techniques like inversion of control.

> If you cannot avoid it, it's best to make sure that anything put into an async local:

Author: ```suggestion
If you cannot avoid it, it's best to make sure that anything put into an async local is:
```

:white_check_mark: **GOOD** The above uses a `ConcurrentDictionary<int, string>` which is thread safe.

### Don't leak your AsyncLocal\<T\>

> Async locals flow across awaits automatically and can be captured by any API that explicitly calls `ExecutionContext.Capture`. The latter can lead to memory leaks if the lifetime of the API capturing the execution context is incompatible with the lifetime of the data stored in the async local.

Author: ```suggestion
Async locals flow across awaits automatically and can be captured by any API that explicitly calls `ExecutionContext.Capture`. The latter can lead to memory leaks in certain situations.
```

#### Common APIs that capture the ExecutionContext

APIs that run user callbacks usually store capture the current execution context in order to preserve async locals between callback registration and execution. Here are examples of some APIs that do this:

- `Timer`
- `CancellationToken.Register`
- `new FileSystemWatcher`
- `SocketAsyncEventArgs`
- `Task.Run`
- `ThreadPool.QueueUserWorkItem`

> ❌ Here's an example of an execution context leak that causes memory pressure.

Author: ```suggestion
❌ Here's an example of an execution context leak that causes memory pressure because of a lifetime mismatch between the API capturing the execution context and the lifetime of the data stored in the async local.
```

> ❌ Here's an example of an execution context leak that causes memory pressure because of a lifetime mismatch between the API capturing the execution context and the lifetime of the data stored in the async local.

Author: ```suggestion
❌ Here's an example of an execution context leak that causes memory pressure because of a lifetime mismatch between the API capturing the execution context, and the lifetime of the data stored in the async local.
```

    int i;
    double doubleBytes = 0;

    for (i = 0; bytes / 1024 > 0; i++, bytes /= 1024)
    {
        doubleBytes = bytes / 1024.0;
    }

    return string.Format("{0:0.00} {1}", doubleBytes, suffix[i]);
}

public class NumberCache
{
    private readonly ConcurrentDictionary<int, CancellationTokenSource> _cache = new ConcurrentDictionary<int, CancellationTokenSource>();
    private TimeSpan _timeSpan;

    public NumberCache(TimeSpan timeSpan)
    {
        _timeSpan = timeSpan;
    }

    public void Add(int key)
    {
        var cts = _cache.GetOrAdd(key, _ => new CancellationTokenSource());
        // Delete entry on expiration
        cts.Token.Register((_, _) => _cache.TryRemove(key, out _), null);

        // Start count down
        cts.CancelAfter(_timeSpan);
    }
}

class ChunkyObject
{
    private static readonly AsyncLocal<ChunkyObject?> _current = new();

    // Stores lots of data (but it should be gen0)
    private readonly string _data = new string('A', 1024 * 32);

    public static ChunkyObject? Current
    {
        get => _current.Value;
        set => _current.Value = value;
    }

    public string Data => _data;
}
```

> The above example has a singleton `NumberCache` that stores numbers for an hour. We have a `ChunkyObject` which stores a 32K string in a field and has an async local so that any code running may access the current `ChunkyObject`. This object should be collected when the `GC` runs but instead we're implicitly capturing the `ChunkyObject` in the `NumberCache` via `CancellationToken.Register`. Instead of just caching the number and a `CancellationTokenSource`, we're implicitly capturing and storing all async locals attached to the current execution context for an hour!

Author: ```suggestion
The above example has a singleton `NumberCache` that stores numbers for an hour. We have a `ChunkyObject` which stores a 32K string in a field, and has an async local so that any code running may access the current `ChunkyObject`. This object should be collected when the `GC` runs but instead, we're implicitly capturing the `ChunkyObject` in the `NumberCache` via `CancellationToken.Register`. Instead of just caching the number and a `CancellationTokenSource`, we're implicitly capturing and storing all async locals attached to the current execution context for an hour!
```

:white_check_mark: **GOOD** The above uses a `ConcurrentDictionary<int, string>` which is thread safe.

### Don't leak your AsyncLocal\<T\>

> Async locals flow across awaits automatically or can be captured by any API that explicitly calls `ExecutionContext.Capture`. The latter can lead to memory leaks if the lifetime of the API capturing the execution context is incompatible with the lifetime of the data stored in the async local.

Author: ```suggestion
Async locals flow across awaits automatically and can be captured by any API that explicitly calls `ExecutionContext.Capture`. The latter can lead to memory leaks if the lifetime of the API capturing the execution context is incompatible with the lifetime of the data stored in the async local.
```

> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

    cache.Add(i);
});

Console.WriteLine("Before GC: " + BytesAsString(GC.GetGCMemoryInfo().HeapSizeBytes));
Console.ReadLine();

GC.Collect();
GC.WaitForPendingFinalizers();

Console.WriteLine("After GC: " + BytesAsString(GC.GetGCMemoryInfo().HeapSizeBytes));
Console.ReadLine();

static string BytesAsString(long bytes)
{
    string[] suffix = { "B", "KB", "MB", "GB", "TB" };
    int i;
    double doubleBytes = 0;

    for (i = 0; bytes / 1024 > 0; i++, bytes /= 1024)
    {
        doubleBytes = bytes / 1024.0;
    }

    return string.Format("{0:0.00} {1}", doubleBytes, suffix[i]);
}

public class NumberCache
{
    private readonly ConcurrentDictionary<int, CancellationTokenSource> _cache = new ConcurrentDictionary<int, CancellationTokenSource>();
    private TimeSpan _timeSpan;

    public NumberCache(TimeSpan timeSpan)
    {
        _timeSpan = timeSpan;
    }

    public void Add(int key)
    {
        var cts = _cache.GetOrAdd(key, _ => new CancellationTokenSource());
        // Delete entry on expiration
        cts.Token.Register((_, _) => _cache.TryRemove(key, out _), null);

        // Start count down
        cts.CancelAfter(_timeSpan);
    }
}

> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

{
    private static readonly AsyncLocal<ChunkyObject?> _current = new();

    // Stores lots of data (but it should be gen0)
    private readonly string _data = new string('A', 1024 * 32);

    public static ChunkyObject? Current
    {
        get => _current.Value;
        set => _current.Value = value;
    }

    public string Data => _data;
}
```

The above example has a singleton `NumberCache` that stores numbers for an hour. We have a `ChunkyObject` which stores a 32K string in a field, and has an async local so that any code running may access the current `ChunkyObject`. This object should be collected when the `GC` runs, but instead, we're implicitly capturing the `ChunkyObject` in the `NumberCache` via `CancellationToken.Register`. 

**Instead of just caching the number and a `CancellationTokenSource`, we're implicitly capturing and storing all async locals attached to the current execution context for an hour!**

Try running the sample locally. Running this on my machine reports numbers like this:

```

> Before GC: 654.65 MB
> 
> After GC: 659.68 MB

Author: ```suggestion
Before GC: 654.65 MB
After GC: 659.68 MB
```

```

With one small tweak to this code, we can avoid the implicit execution context capture.

:white_check_mark: **GOOD** Use `CancellationToken.UnsafeRegister` to avoid capturing the execution context and any async locals as part of the `NumberCache`:

```C#
public class NumberCache
{
    private readonly ConcurrentDictionary<int, CancellationTokenSource> _cache = new ConcurrentDictionary<int, CancellationTokenSource>();
    private TimeSpan _timeSpan;

    public NumberCache(TimeSpan timeSpan)
    {
        _timeSpan = timeSpan;
    }

    public void Add(int key)
    {
        var cts = _cache.GetOrAdd(key, _ => new CancellationTokenSource());
        // Delete entry on expiration
        cts.Token.UnsafeRegister((_, _) => _cache.TryRemove(key, out _), null);

        // Start count down
        cts.CancelAfter(_timeSpan);
    }
}
```

The GC numbers after this change:

```C#

> Before GC: 10.32 MB
> 
> After GC: 5.10 MB

Author: ```suggestion
Before GC: 10.32 MB
After GC: 5.10 MB
```
